the experience of not belonging can
manifest itself in different ways you
may not have belonged to the popular
groups at school or perhaps you don't
belong to a certain religious community
maybe or the town's fool or your family
doesn't want to see you anymore whatever
it is not belonging can be painful
lonely lead to feelings of disconnect
and it may be a lot harder to get things
done when you never enjoy the benefits
of in-group reference also it increases
the chance of social isolation which can
lead to mental and even physical illness
but not belonging in itself as its
benefits as well let's talk about them
one ultimate freedom groups cannot only
restrict the way we think and speak but
our physical movement as well perhaps
they prohibit us from entering certain
places like buildings or even countries
or we have to eliminate certain things
from our diet simply because of the
group's ideology whether or not
supported by logic and reason
admittingly
many things that groups prescribed can
be very good for you but that doesn't
mean that we need the group's ideology
to live a good life every ideology is
contrary to human psychology said French
Algerian philosopher Albert Camus so we
might sell ourselves short by engaging
in ideological obedience there are many
groups to belong to from religious
communities to motorcycle gangs but what
an effort it takes to belong to these
groups to talk like they do think like
they do dress like they do you name it
and what's the reward well that you
belong thus you are surrounded by people
that conform to each other based on
certain characteristics essentially it's
a form of safety however not belonging
to a group grants us the freedom to look
how we want dress how we want associate
with and love who we want think and say
what we want thus being an ideologically
independent a thinker that is not
encumbered by our groups narrative now
that's what I call freedom paradoxically
this also gives us the freedom to
actually associate with and be part of a
group of our own preference to less in
group preference more Universal love in
Buddhism there's a practice called meta
meta means loving kindness
now this loving-kindness is not
selective rather it is a universal love
for all sentient beings what we often
see happening in groups is the opposite
they deeply love the members of the
group while being hostile to those that
do not belong to that group
this is in-group reference which can be
great when you are part of that group
but not so great when you're not this
also means that this form of love is
conditional because if you happen to
become an outcast
this group love doesn't
lie to you anymore try to convert to
another religion try to switch to
another street gang or friends group or
support a different soccer team and see
what happens
now if you don't belong to a certain
group in the first place you don't
receive love from the same people but
you don't have to give it to the same
people either you are free to distribute
your love to whomever you want from this
position you can develop compassion for
Humanity as a whole or like the
Buddhists do for all sentient beings I
quote just as a mother at a risk of life
loves and protects her child her only
child so one should cultivate this
boundless love to all that live in a
whole universe extending from a
consciousness sublime upwards and
downwards and across the world
untroubled free from hate and enmity
three self-actualization above
conformity when I started this channel I
made a highly criticised video about an
idea called the Sigma meal according to
this idea the Sigma meal does not
identify with a specific place in the
hierarchy or with a group for that
matter his way is using the hierarchy to
his advantage while maintaining his
independence and autonomy this could
apply to females as well of course
called the Sigma female now the person I
described is someone who chooses
self-actualization above conformity
because let's face it both processes
take effort it takes energy to conform
to what a herd perceives as the norm to
quote Camus again nobody realizes that
some people expend tremendous energy
merely to be normal and quote people
need each other to some extent for
example I'm happy to belong to the
kingdom of the Netherlands as a citizen
and all the benefits that come from that
and it's also part of my identity
but aside from abiding the law and
conforming to some local customs in
public places
I have great freedom in how I arrange my
life and also in choosing my values now
I don't think that conformity is always
a bad thing in some cases it is
necessary for practical regions but
instead of making it or default pursuit
to belong somewhere
we can also put this energy into
self-development and become people that
are more true to themselves there's a
tremendous amount of energy we save by
nonconformity
however the sacrifice we make is that we
don't have a place in the herd which
doesn't necessarily mean social
isolation by the way to wrap it up the
benefits of not belonging are ultimate
freedom less in-group preference which
could lead to more universal love and
self-actualization above conformity
while making this video I realize how
much I love to be an individual who can
be genuinely himself ideologically
independent and basically question
everything and everyone without
repercussions even though it's a path of
solitude and uncertainty the delight of
not belonging is truly priceless
thank you for watching
you